Documentation for Radius + Flux integration (#1408)
radius-project/docs: docs/content/guides/deploy-apps/gitops/flux/_index.md

---
type: docs
title: "Radius + Flux"
linkTitle: "Radius + Flux"
description: "Learn about how Radius is integrated with Flux"
weight: 100
tags: ["flux", "gitops", "continuous", "delivery", "deployment"]
---

This guide provides an overview of how to integrate Radius with [Flux](https://fluxcd.io/), a popular GitOps tool. It covers the installation and configuration of Flux, as well as how to deploy your Radius applications using Flux. For a guided tutorial, check out the  [Radius + Flux Tutorial]({{< ref "tutorials/gitops-flux" >}}).

> ## Overview

Reviewer: This section contains the Radius configuration instead of an overview. How about renaming this section to "Radius Setup" or "Radius Configuration" and have a brief "Overview" section of one or two sentences that describes how Radius needs configuration files added and Flux needs to be configured to connect to the repo where Radius config files are stored?

Reviewer 2: +1

Reviewer 2: Can we just fold this all into one Flux How-To guide under a parent GitOps section?

With Radius, deployment and management of applications defined in Bicep files can be done using GitOps tools like Flux. This allows for a declarative approach to managing your applications, ensuring that the desired state of your applications is always maintained in your Git repository.

Your Git repository should contain the following:
- Bicep files defining your Radius applications and cloud infrastructure.

> - `radius-config.yaml` file that specifies which Bicep files to deploy and how to configure them.

Reviewer: Minor issue: the tutorial calls this file `radius-gitops-config.yaml`. Maybe this one should be renamed to match that. Also, having `gitops` in the name makes it clear that this is a GitOps configuration rather than a Radius configuration.

Author: good catch thanks!

1. Verify the installation by running:

   ```bash
   flux version
   ```

### Install the Flux Source Controller

The only required component for this integration is the Flux source controller. This component is responsible for managing the Git repository and syncing it with your Kubernetes cluster.

1. Install Flux in your Kubernetes cluster:

   ```bash
   flux install --namespace=flux-system --version=latest --components=source-controller --network-policy=false
   ```

   {{< alert title="⚠️ Network Policy" color="warning" >}}
   The `--network-policy=false` flag is specified here to disable the network policy for the Flux source controller, since by default access to Flux components is restricted. For a production setup, you can instead remove this flag and configure the network policy to allow `radius-system` namespace access to the source controller. This will ensure that the source controller can communicate with your Git repository and sync changes effectively.
   For more information on the network policy, see the [Flux documentation](https://fluxcd.io/flux/installation/configuration/optional-components/#network-policies).
   {{< /alert >}}

> 

Reviewer: Should there be one more section describing the configuration of Flux to read the repo where the application is stored? Or maybe a reference to the tutorial where that information is included in step-by-step format.

---
type: docs
title: "Radius + Flux"
linkTitle: "Radius + Flux"
description: "Learn about how Radius is integrated with Flux"
weight: 100
tags: ["flux", "gitops", "continuous", "delivery", "deployment"]
---

> This guide provides an overview of how to integrate Radius with [Flux](https://fluxcd.io/), a popular GitOps tool. It covers the installation and configuration of Flux, as well as how to deploy your Radius applications using Flux. For a guided tutorial, check out the  [Radius + Flux Tutorial]({{< ref "tutorials/gitops-flux" >}}).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This guide provides an overview of how to integrate Radius with [Flux](https://fluxcd.io/), an open-source GitOps tool that's also part of the CNCF. It covers the installation and configuration of Flux, as well as how to deploy your Radius applications using Flux. For a guided tutorial, check out the  [Radius + Flux Tutorial]({{< ref "tutorials/gitops-flux" >}}).
```

## Overview

With Radius, deployment and management of applications defined in Bicep files can be done using GitOps tools like Flux. This allows for a declarative approach to managing your applications, ensuring that the desired state of your applications is always maintained in your Git repository.

Your Git repository should contain the following:
- Bicep files defining your Radius applications and cloud infrastructure.
- `radius-gitops-config.yaml` file that specifies which Bicep files to deploy and how to configure them (described below).
- Any other configuration files required for your applications (such as `.bicepparam` or `bicepconfig.json` files).

## Radius Configuration

The features necessary for the Radius + Flux integration are included by default in the Radius controller. You can use the `rad` CLI (`rad init`, `rad install kubernetes`) as normal to install the controller in your Kubernetes cluster.

> To enable this integration, you need to create a `radius-config.yaml` file in your Git repository. This file specifies the Bicep files to deploy and their parameters.
> 
> Here is an example showing all of the options for the `radius-config.yaml` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable this integration, you need to create a `radius-gitops-config.yaml` file in your Git repository. This file specifies the Bicep files to deploy and their parameters.

Here is an example showing all of the options for the `radius-gitops-config.yaml` file:
```

1. Verify the installation by running:

   ```bash
   flux version
   ```

### Install the Flux Source Controller

The only required component for this integration is the Flux source controller. This component is responsible for managing the Git repository and syncing it with your Kubernetes cluster.

1. Install Flux in your Kubernetes cluster:

   ```bash
   flux install --namespace=flux-system --version=latest --components=source-controller --network-policy=false
   ```

   {{< alert title="⚠️ Network Policy" color="warning" >}}
   The `--network-policy=false` flag is specified here to disable the network policy for the Flux source controller, since by default access to Flux components is restricted. For a production setup, you can instead remove this flag and configure the network policy to allow `radius-system` namespace access to the source controller. This will ensure that the source controller can communicate with your Git repository and sync changes effectively.
   For more information on the network policy, see the [Flux documentation](https://fluxcd.io/flux/installation/configuration/optional-components/#network-policies).

>    {{< /alert >}}

Reviewer 2: This looks like it's all Flux-specific instructions, can we remove this and just link a pointer to the Flux documentation for these steps? kind of like how we just call out that the user needs to have dapr installed in their cluster and point them to the dapr docs: https://docs.radapp.io/tutorials/dapr/#prerequisites

Author: fixed, I kept the alert though because the user most likely will not have this flag enabled so I think it'd be good to call it out. In the future we could write a "flux setup" docs page with the right network policy.

### Configure Flux

> Now that you have installed the Flux CLI and the source controller, you can use Flux as you do today to manage your Git repository, such as by using the [`flux create source git`](https://fluxcd.io/flux/cmd/flux_create_source_git/) CLI command to associate your Git repository with the Flux source controller.

Reviewer 2: same thing here, just point to Flux, or perhaps even add this step to the troubleshooting section, e.g. If your  changes in the repo aren't being detected by Flux, make sure you have configured it properly per the instructions [here](https://fluxcd.io/flux/cmd/flux_create_source_git/).
